# IP Studio Grouping API

See API docs `./ipsgrouping/static/GroupingAPI-v2.0.html`.

The Grouping API provides read and write access to Groups and Packages of IP Studio resources. The API layer is intended to simplify management of multiple resources that can be logically grouped together.

Groups are used to collect together multiple resources (e.g. sources, flows, senders, receivers, groups) of the same type in order to retain context. For example, sources corresponding to a camera can be collected as a group.

A Group consists of a unique id, a members field (a map of named resource ids), a resource_type field, a label field, a description field and a tags field (a map between tag labels and arrays of corresponding tag values).

In the x-ipstudio implementation, all fields are maintained by the client, excluding the group id that is generated by the server.

Packages represent the contents of a Group between mininum (min_ts) and maximum (max_ts) TAI (leap second aware) timestamps. A package of flows, for example, could represent the media content of a television programme. Packages with the max timestamp omitted can be used to represent live content, although live content could also be represented by an unpackaged group.

A package consists of a group_id, which references the enclosed group, min_ts and max_ts timestamp fields, and label and tags fields. The label and tags fields follow the same schema as the corresponding fields found in a group.

The Grouping API permits creation, updation and deletion of Groups and Packages. Groups and packages are accessed individually using unique ids.

The group and package endpoints can be queried using the RQL query language.
